Goals for Node.js and Package Manager Version Management Effort (#597)
nodejs/package-maintenance: docs/version-management/goals.md

# Goals for Node.js and Package Manager Version Management Effort

Help application developers to:

> 1. Define the correct Node.js runtime version and package manager version for projects.

Author: This document is intentionally omitting implementation details, because we want to define the goals without prescribing any particular solution.

> 1. Define the correct Node.js runtime version and package manager version for projects.

Reviewer: @bnb in case you are wondering, the next step is to extract a bunch of things from this draft PR I opened with a running (and overly long) doc I had been compiling from these discussions. https://github.com/nodejs/package-maintenance/pull/594

> 1. Define the correct Node.js runtime version and package manager version for projects.

Reviewer 2: I think the only `correct` version is LTS, but it is there are tons of projects that work with EOL Node.js, so I would say the `needed` or `desired`

```suggestion
1. Define the needed Node.js runtime version and package manager version for projects.
```

Author: I don’t know of anywhere that we say that non-LTS versions are not “correct.” They just don’t have long-term support.

> 1. Define the correct Node.js runtime version and package manager version for projects.
> 
> 1. Install Node.js and a package manager for a local development environment.
> 
> 1. Run the correct version of Node.js and of a package manager for each project.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
1. Define the correct Node.js runtime version and package manager version for each project.

1. Install the correct Node.js runtime version and package manager version for a local development environment.

1. Run the correct Node.js runtime version and package manager version for each project.
```

Reviewer 3: I wonder if we can make this much simpler:

- Define, run, and install the correct node version and package manager version

Author: Well 'correct' only makes sense in the context of a project, right? But users might also want to install Node onto their machine generally, before creating any projects or without any particular project in mind.

Reviewer 3: Perhaps “specific”?

- Define, run, and install a specific node version and package manager version

Reviewer 3: Sounds good. I just want to make sure we don't have implicit assumptions that are not listed here because that was the problem with previous solutions. For example, the goals here don't explain what "project" means.

Reviewer: Ah interesting point, yeah agreed we want to avoid assumptions. Should we list out "application or library" or do you have a particular assumption you think folks mean which we want to avoid folks making?

Reviewer 4: Replacing "project" with "working directory" SGTM

Author: I don’t think “working directory” makes sense. If I’m in `app/routes` and I have an `app/package.json`, it’s the `package.json` root that defines the project scope; I shouldn’t need another `app/routes/package.json` to repeat the version of Node to use for commands in `app/routes`. I know we might not define configuration based on `package.json`, but I also think it’s unlikely that we would want to define it separately in every folder within a project.

Reviewer 4: Saying "Define the correct Node.js runtime version and package manager version for the current working directory" says nothing about having the config file in the same directory, it could be in a different one (the parent directory in your example)

Author: It implies that the unit we’re concerned with is the directory, when really what we’re focusing on is projects. Our goal here is to help users run the right software for their projects.

> 1. Run different versions of Node.js and different versions of package managers for different projects.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
1. Run different versions of Node.js and different versions of package managers for different projects, deterministically.
```

Reviewer: Yeah we had some language trying to address the "deterministic builds" part, we were a bit concerned because according to the folks we have talked with most folks are not pinning their version with `corepack` today. And I am not sure we want to "force determinism as a goal". We want to make it REALLY easy for folks to do, but our concern was that adding it to the goals might make it appear we would be committing to a technical decision with that language.

As long as folks realize that enabling but not forcing *is our goal*, then I am good with this change landing.

Reviewer 4: Realistically, we can't _force_ determinism. But we can make the deterministic way much easier and don't try to support the undeterministic way in the MVP.

> 1. Run different versions of Node.js and different versions of package managers for different projects, deterministically.

Reviewer 4: I think having determinism is a goal, having a loose option is not a goal (but is also not off the table, it simply is not a priority)

> 1. Run different versions of Node.js and different versions of package managers for different projects, deterministically.

Author: Do we need to say anything at all about determinism? I think it’s implicit that we want to help users run the right software in the best way possible. I don’t think anyone would have read the original text and thought it meant that the runtime or package manager versions would be chosen randomly, for example.

> 1. Run different versions of Node.js and different versions of package managers for different projects, deterministically.

Author: I think this phrasing achieves the same?

```suggestion
1. Run the correct version of Node.js and of a package manager for each project.
```

> 1. Run different versions of Node.js and different versions of package managers for different projects, deterministically.

Reviewer: Yeah I personally think adding `determinism` implies more than we want for the high level goals and I think folks would read that and think we don't intend to support a loose mode. IMO we *must* support a loose mode from the start, but I dont want to get hung up on that here if we can help it. I am 👍 on either removing the new word *or* language like either I or @GeoffreyBooth  proposed above to clarify. I am 👎 on it as is now that I have thought about it for a bit.
